Ultrac is one of the most powerful [[Mind Flayer|Illithid]] to ever be turned into an [[Alhoon]]. 
He became an [[Alhoon]] only a couple hundred years after the first nine [[Mind Flayer|Illithid]] broke off to become [[Alhoon]], and was inspired to seek his own way of life after hearing stories of them. He studied necromancy, become a potent spellcaster, but after some time he became unhappy with the constant recreation of periapt of mind trapping, seeking longer and longer lived creatures to sacrifice. He came up with a plan. Ultrac started gaining large amounts of political influence and arcane power within the astral sea, and eventually raised a [[Mind Flayer]] army of his own. He led this army to the Negative Plane, and sent them after [[Asrasil]]. He overwhelmed the powerful god, and began perhaps the most horrific and powerful ritual in history. He created a final periapt of mind trapping, trapping a portion of [[Asrasil|Asrasil's]] soul in it. The god no longer had enough divine power to hold onto his title, and he quietly let his power slip away and made his way to his final resting place. 

Ultrac's periapt was more powerful than any [[Alhoon]] had ever created, even more power than any Elder Brain had held. He had finally achieved his goal of true immortality. He gave up what was left of his empire, his armies, everything. Ultrac followed [[Asrasil]] to where the god had travelled to die, and built his palace in the dead god's skull. Over thousands and thousands of years, this palace became the centrepiece of a thriving hub for all pursuers of the more evil forms of the arcane, known as [[The Crown]]. Ultrac watched stars and worlds form around his home, spending his days researching and trying to discover and learn every known form of magic. 

Ultrac's main body is somewhere between an eldritch horror and a normal [[Alhoon]], with a large brain-like mass at the centre, and multiple [[Mind Flayer]] tentacles reaching out from it. It sucks in all light around it and any living creature that goes near it feels a sense of impending doom and fear. 
Ultrac can also command a small selection of avatars. His main avatar resembles a somewhat larger than usual [[Alhoon]], very similar to what his mortal body looked like. His other avatars all appear to be normal [[Mind Flayer|Illithid]] without any consciousness of their own. He has individual statblocks for each avatar and his main body. 

Running this NPC:
Ultrac is self aggrandized, and rightfully so. He sees himself as the pinnacle of [[Mind Flayer]] power, as close to a god for their species as there can be. At the same time, he is a humble man in relation to his studies. He understands that even with hundreds of thousands of years of study, there are more powerful spellcasters and people who have greater understanding of magic than he may ever. An NPC or PC who can display superior magic skills or knowledge will have Ultrac's undying respect. However, he will hate those who see him as weak, dumb, or not deserved of his position. The PCs first encounter this NPC during a visit to [[The Crown]], if they get in trouble with city forces, a major crime boss or powerful entity, or if they directly try to enter his palace.