Asrasil was once the God of Death, one of the most powerful gods in the entire astral sea. He ruled the Negative Plane and all planes of death. 

Before Asrasil was a god, he was a man, a mere mortal. He was half [[Braxat]], half [[Nagpa]], already born as one of a kind. Over many years, he accrued enough wealth and arcane power to journey into the astral, reaching past even his mothers magical prowess. There he discovered the gods, beings of real divine power that governed a core principle of the entire astral, and he was captivated. Not through any physical or magical power, but through his political machinations and schemes, he ascended to a place close to divinity, serving as the highest agent of the god of death. Asrasil remained happy with this status for millennia, thinking that it was the highest a mortal could ascend. The day his master stepped down, he discovered that all gods were once mortal, and have finite lifespans as gods. Without warning, he was thrust into his standing as the God of Death, and there he ruled the Negative Plane and all unliving creatures and souls for close to a million years.

However as Asrasil had learnt, not even gods can last forever. Two hundred thousand years ago, he was killed by an [[Alhoon]] by the name of [[Ultrac]]. [[Ultrac]] lead his army to the heart of the Negative Plane, and though almost all of his army was destroyed, he managed to overcome the deity. Once the God of Death had been slain, [[Ultrac]] took part of his soul and absorbed more divine power than a mortal should possess, turning himself immortal. 
After his defeat, Asrasil took himself to an empty area in the astral sea, and looked out at the beauty of the universe as the final dregs of his millennia old mortal life force rotted away.
All that is left of Asrasil now is his skull, floating in close orbit around the star of The Dead Gate wildespace system.

